---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Inspiration from a friend
redirect_from: /2012/05/23/23593702226/
date: '2012-05-23 04:38:04 -0500'
---
<p>I posted a quick update on Facebook the other night that said: “A good friend reminded me tonight that there is a big difference between critiquing and creating. It’s good to remember.” It was after a discussion about art, artists and faith over a couple of good beers. It prompted me to action, and a new project.</p>
<p>Short backstory: I have a particular axe to grind with some of the folks in my part of the Christian world. I’m not fond of the way that some Christians look at art solely as a medium for only the most explicit of messages, or as meaningless entertainment only. I also think that we, as a sub-culture, do not emphasize the importance of a classical education, familiarity with literature and the importance the arts enough. I know some folks will be offended, and I’m not trying to do that, but I really believe it is true.</p>
<p>So, as we were talking I basically pitched a writing project on this topic that I was considering to my friend Ben. We had a good, long, back and forth discussion and Ben had some excellent points. In the end he summed it up lightheartedly, but it landed on me like a ton of bricks. He (paraphrasing) said, “if you don’t like the state of art in our culture, go make better art.”</p>
<p>He’s right. Instead of writing some ponderous tome that no one will read defending my favorite writers, who need no defense from me, I should pick up the banner and march forward.</p>
<p>Stop critiquing, start creating.</p>
<p>Okay, challenge accepted.</p>
