---
layout: post
title: Cuckoo's Calling
redirect_to:
  - /2013/09/12/cuckoos-calling/
date: '2013-09-12 10:00:21 -0500'
categories: reading
---
<p>Many writers would sacrifice a lot to have a name like J.K. Rowling. "Think of all the books I would sell if I was well-known," they say to themselves. It turns out that Ms. Rowling found this fame a bit constricting. For her second post-Potter book she bailed on the idea of recognition and took a time-tested route, the pseudonym.</p>
<p>Published under the name 'Robert Galbraith', <em>Cuckoo's Calling</em> is an entertaining story of Cormoran Strike, an amputee and military police veteran-turned private investigator. Upon the tale's opening he is hired by the brother of a recently deceased supermodel. Her death appears to be a clear suicide, but the brother has his doubts. After serendipitously gaining a plucky sidekick on the form of Robin, a temp secretary with a secret fascination with the idea of the PI life, the story is off and running.</p>
<p>Rowling uses the detective genre's characteristics admirably. The standard parts are all there, and well done. The alleged crime is interesting, the characters diverse and fascinating, and the pacing and plot is very, very well done. While there are no major reveals, no shocking moments of revelation until the climax, the story builds with anticipation and patience. Strike is a good investigator, and Rowling does an excellent job of showing the reader his prowess instead of merely informing us of it.</p>
<p>In the end, it is a very good novel. There is already a second installment scheduled for later this year, and I will certainly be picking it up. That Rowling is a good author, and that she would find success after the relatively disappointing <i>The Casual Vacancy</i> is not all that interesting to me. I never felt like those two facts were in doubt.</p>
<p>There are two aspects of this book that merit special attention. First, and most important, is the way that Rowling, just as she did in the Potter books and <em>Vacancy</em>, brings real consideration to issues of culture and humanity. Rowling uncovers aspects of the fashion world, celebrity and wealth that I think we assume are real, but do not ponder at length. In this book, Rowling brings the dark aspects of her story to the front in the manner of a parable and not a sermon.  She tells us the story of a sad girl, lost in her fame, looking for her identity, and ultimately dying for nothing.</p>
<p>Rowling is powerful on this front, and I wish I could do her work justice in discussing all of the implications of her story. Instead, I will put you in the much more capable hands of Dr. Jim Hamilton. In <a href="http://www.christianity.com/blogs/jim-hamilton/first-thoughts-on-ithe-cuckoos-callingi-by-robert-galbraith-j-k-rowling.html">his first reaction to the book (which you should read in whole)</a>, he wrote:</p>
<blockquote><p>What if an author wrote <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0316206849/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&amp;camp=1789&amp;creative=390957&amp;creativeASIN=0316206849&amp;linkCode=as2&amp;tag=forhisreno-20" target="_blank">a page-turner of a mystery story</a> that depicted things about the world whose implications we have not pondered?</p>
<p>What if there were an industry (modeling) that routinely exploited young defenseless women, stripping them of their inhibitions and their clothing, desensitizing them to indignities, disregarding their futures, and at the same time somehow making young women everywhere long to be subjected to the same mistreatment? What if most people thought that nothing could be better for a girl than for her to be so beautiful she would get the chance to sell her soul—not even realizing that was happening—in exchange for hazardous sums of money and undesirable notoriety?</p>
<p>What if nobody stopped to consider that these girls are human beings?</p>
<p>What if instead of defending and protecting these girls, the men who saw them were swept away gawking and lusting?</p>
<p>What if nobody complained about any of this?</p></blockquote>
<p>Rowling uses her art for real purposes. She prompts the reader to consider the implications of her story, one that is not far from reality even if it is fiction. She creates a world and a cast of characters that show us a view of true human nature, one that perceptive readers can see Truth in.</p>
<p>Second, she created a character that I quite like in Cormoran Strike. When I read a book, especially a series of books, I want to like the main character. I want to root for him. Rowling crafted a character that is sympathetic and affable under a gruff facade, and that goes a long way for me as a reader.</p>
<p>Strike is a good base to work from if an author is creating a series. He has an intriguing back story, with a rock star dad and groupie mother, a tour of duty in Afghanistan that led to amputation, and a history with beautiful, temperamental women. He is a good investigator, and a flawed person. He is not emotionally available, but he is aware. He is intelligent, but not always smart. He is by no means perfect, but he is <em>good</em>. Again, that goes a long way. I look forward to the further tales of Strike.</p>
<p>I like the PI sub-genre, and I think Rowling did it justice. Her pseudonymous gamble paid off. The novel had a positive critical reception before the author's true identity was known. Having it read it myself, with full knowledge of its true source, I can say that it is not only a very good read, it is also clearly a Rowling work of the highest order.</p>
